We'll look at this idea of
polymorphic components.
Cuz buttons are an interesting one.
A lot of times we use buttons
as they're intended to be used.
And then a lot of times,
we'll have buttons that we want
them to look like buttons.
But semantically speaking,
they should be hyperlinks, right?
The designer hands is something
where it looks like a button.
But it's yeah,
it's not to like do an action on the page
is to actually bring us to another page.
And we might have something where we want
the component system you we want our
button to either be a button or
be a link that looks like a button.
And we don't want to
necessarily have a button and
a button as link component
if we can avoid it.
But you can imagine that,
okay if there is a little voice
screaming in your head that says,
but Steve,
won't TypeScript not let me do like
dynamic stuff like that anymore.
And I will argue that is not true,
you can have a way in which you
might seek to have the ability to
find it as a different component.
So a lot of times what we'll
see is an as properties.
So you can have a button and
you might have an as,
a different HTML element and
sub it in, that'll work.
Also, we've been a little bit,
our last button didn't take
all the props a button did.
So we can actually figure out how
to solve for some of these things.
But what I would love to do is I'd
love to say put button primary,
I'd love to say as an a tag.
And then it should be able
to take an href, right?
In this little version is not
doing all the intellisense.
But like this wouldn't work right now cuz
you can clearly see that the does not on
the button pops.
And you can actually see it down there.
Let's open it up fully.
So we wanna say, okay, by default, if
you say a button, it should be a button.
Otherwise, if they say as some other kind
of element, we want to use that instead.
And like you can limit it,
just using like Wolcott,
what are the strings we
expect is union type.
You see something like another
place that you might use this and
we will use this as an exercise in
a second is around the concept of like
things that can take some text.
You might want to have a text that
could be like a paragraph, or
possibly a div or a section or
an article that you want
to be able to do certain things
in your component library with.
But you want to be able to give it
the different semantic meanings
that it might need.
And so this pattern will allow
you to do that, as well.
So what we need to do is we need to figure
out, which parts that we are going to,
which parts are going,
that we're going to override and
have a regular button, and which parts
that we want to kind of pass in.
So we're gonna need a generic here.
So we'll say type of button props.
We're gonna make a new property
here which is gonna be as.
And again, we said this before,
this is going to be some kind of other
HTML element, an anchor tag button,
something along those lines.
And we could use t we I'm going to use e
in this case because we know it's going
to be it's supposed to be an HTML element.
If you really want use t, go use t,
and right now TypeScript angry.
TypeScript is angry because it's like,
I don't know.
I don't know what,
I don't know what he is.
So we are in TypeScript is is
it's happy again, all right?
When you use this type,
it's angry somewhere else, right?
Because now we didn't pass in e,
but we will.
We can say okay.
We can pass in any type, but
we know we don't want any type.
Remember when we did this with the higher
order component before, we're like,
hey, yeah.
What if you only gave me components
that take a user property?
Wouldn't that be great?
Yeah, yeah, that's cool.
So we want E, but
we want E to be an HTML element because
we're gonna use it as an HTML element.
So say E extends react element type.
And we saw things that
extend react element type or
when we using our event listeners before
the HTML input element, so on so forth.
And they all, we'll just have
a default to react element type.
So this will be our buttons own property.
So these are kind of the ones of our
component systems button so
button own props.
This is how before we set out like
the button props in the primary and
secondary button props.
And so
here we say type ButtonProps is again,
it's going to be that we're going
to have that idea of E again.
And we'll talk through this because this
is the reason we had that little chat
about generics before we jumped into all
of this stuff is, if you didn't understand
what the angle bracket syntax was,
we can talk through it.
But having some of that context
is definitely helpful as well.
So we'll have that idea of E
cuz extends react element type.
And what this is going to be is give me
everything in button own props, right?
So our buttons are unique special
buttons that we're gonna pass in.
That's taking primary,
secondary destructive and stuff like that.
Those are not part of
the HTML button spec.
So take everything that's in
our buttons and combine that,
With everything that is in the react
component around whatever E is,
minus the ones that we define.
So remember, we did this to
the higher order components.
The line I'm about to write is exactly
what we did with the higher order
component before.
But we're also just
combining it with our own.
So well met E, and then key button props
ButtonOwnProps.
All right, one more curly brace or
angle brace.
Nope.
Yeah, one more one way.
I caught that one.
Let's see.
Let's hover over and see what the issues
are omit lacks return type any.
I don't need that,
I put that in, there we go.
All right, so
we've got this new button props.
And so it's a little much to look at here.
But it is looking at anything that you
pointed out as we get excluding children,
primary, secondary, destructive,
and as, which makes sense.
So our button pops will
be anything that does,
but we're gonna pass these in ourselves.
Okay, cool, and then now we need
to figure out what's going on.
So let's just review for a second.
We've got a generic called E.
We placed a constraint on E that is
something that conforms to the shape of
an HTML element.
We take the button on
props that we just made,
we made a new type that is
whatever the element takes.
But lets us override it with in this case,
children, for
instance is the most important one.
But it lets us override
it with our unique types.
So we now know this takes as well.
And we're going to figure
out what E is in this case.
And so our button now our button
component is also going to say like,
hey, this now this is now going to we
basically have to pass the rename.
Button is going to take some,
it's gonna figure out usually for
the as what E is it's going to
pass it into button props, right?
Button props is going to then
look at the element type and
look at our own button props and
kind of pass it up and down back through.
So from when we define as that will
get passed in to button props.
We will create a new type that
has everything that element does
minus the things that we defined so
on so forth.
And TypeScript is going to
figure a lot of that out for us.
So let's make, let's say the by default
button should be buttons, right?
That checks out.
And so we'll say that take the generic
Write element type, and by default,
it's going to be the type
of our default element.
All right, so TypeScript was
pretty happy with us right now.
We do need to do some stuff here.
Right now we'll do what we did
all this work on the type, and
then we still return a button.
So that's not incredibly useful.
And one of the things
in react is that it's,
all of our HTML elements are lowercase.
Are anything would like having react
figured out we usually use uppercase
letters.
So we're just going to kind
of rename it real quick.
We'll say that a TagName is
whatever the as the optional
as property was, or
is that default element.
And here we're just gonna say,
TagName, Everything works.
Now, try to ref here,
it's like whoa, whoa,
I mean there's a lot to read here,
but you can kind of see in there.
It's like, you see that ButtonHTML
elements, HTML button element.
There's no RF on there.
But what happens if I say, okay,
this button treated as an a tag?
Look at that dynamically,
the element that we're using,
I know that E is, now set to an a tag.
Get me all of reacts properties of a tag,
ref is definitely on there.
Definitely support primary as
well from our ButtonOwnProps and
kind of dynamically create that type based
on everything that an anchor tag includes,
plus everything that we defined, right?
And if again,
if we remove that it's like whoa,
like we default back to button
where ref is not supported.
And everything about in
support is okay as well.
Remember that you can see ID didn't get as
a problem even though we didn't define ID
because button support ID, right?
So all HTML element support ID.
So that was fine.
But it dynamically figures out the type
based on the information we gave it.
So you're an anchor tag, and
you've got button on props.
I'll support both of those.
I'll figure it all out for you.
But if you try to use something,
just anything in there,
I'm going to try to prevent
you from making mistakes.
Because maybe you're refactoring
a bunch of buttons into anchor tags.
I will help you along the way so
you don't have some weird edge case
that you don't find until much later.